Let's continue the conversation about when UTM tagging is
not needed to track your campaign performance in Google Analytics.
As we already discussed,
when you have auto tagging enabled in
AdWords and your account linked, you do not need it.
If you happen to be a GA360 user and you have your double-click,
now known as Google Marketing Platform or GMP accounts linked,
and also auto tagging enabled,
that's another instance where you do not need to use UTM parameters.
Internal links within your website.
We see this issue fairly frequently and it is not
a good idea to use campaign tags on your internal links.
It seems like a good idea to track these efforts as campaigns.
The problem is that you are fragmenting your sessions.
Every time campaign parameters are present in the link,
you're going to break the session and you're going to start a new session.
More importantly, you're going to overwrite
that attributed campaign data that you already have associated with that user's cookie.
So, you are in effect overriding
the actual marketing activities that brought that person to you,
and so you're really damaging your ability to
effectively attribute conversion activities to
your original marketing sources when you use campaign parameters on your internal links.
So, again, don't do it.
True referral traffic really does not need UTM parameters.
So, if you happen to get a good review on a product
just because somebody purchased your product really liked it,
they decided to mention it on their personal blog or some other website that they have,
you didn't devote any marketing dollars to it.
You didn't cultivate that relationship.
They just decided to put a link to your site.
You don't need UTM parameters for that.
That traffic will get captured as a referral and it really is a true referral,
similar with your organic link building efforts.
If your inbound links,
if they're just naturally acquired,
somebody liked your website and they link to you,
again, that's true referral traffic.
No need for UTM parameters.
Your earned social media links.
If somebody mentioned you on his personal Facebook profile with a post,
it will get picked up as a social referral.
This is true for referrals from social sites,
but it won't be the case for social apps.